Ok so, now let's go
ahead and begin our
variable declaration
and some general
things. So usually one
of the most common
variables and one
of the first ones
that you will learn about is int, so
we can type in int, year we will assign a
value of 2016 but anyway
this is a variable
year of type int.
So, variable year
of type int, the value of this variable is
not yet defined that is. This variable is
not initialized it however it does have
a value believe it or not regardless of
whether we assign it or not it has the
value of whatever whatever was in the
memory in that
particular location for
the variable was
declared, so we have
occupied a certain amount of memory
space and whatever was within that
memory space is now
now belongs to this
variable you can do
a printout of this
variable without the
initialisation you will
get some some random
things basically to
an extent anyway now
we can go ahead
and set the value
of a variable so we
can set the value
of a variable down
below if you want
somewhere along the
way on your code year equals 2016 you can read it clear your
variable by typing
in year equals 2017
somewhere later a long
the code so at this
point I don't know you have to have some
code in between them and here, the year
had the variable year had the value of
2016 and somewhere down the road you
decided to change the value of the
variable year to 2017 and now it will
have the value of 2017
so just wanted to clear it out.
Now, we
can write it we can
actually use this
variable and we can write it to standard
output like this so std cout and
certain up here and we
can type in I don't
know year is space
and there should
operate every year so we will simply use
the variable and it will print out the
value of the variable
the value that is
contained within the
variable but I do
like this, ok come on, here we go.
So year
is 2016 as you can see
year is 2016 because
year contains the value of the variable
here just let me go ahead and added
find properties BufferSize font to be
like 24, ok,
yep they're we go so
this must be much
better as you can
see it a lot easier
because I know actually it sealed it
all the printouts it says year is
2016 just as it says here year and
then the variable year but the variable
year won't get printed out its value
will be taken and that will be printed
out on the screen we can declare
multiple variables
of the same type in
one line so for example if I do this I
don't know down below we can type in int
a equals I don't know 10
we can say b, we don't
need to clear b and
there we can say like c
equals 14 you don't
need these bases
that I'm making here,
I'm just making
them so that you can
see it better doesn't make a difference
to computer, it doesn't make a difference
to the machine and d equals 5, e equals a keep in mind, f equals to whatever five and
then we can say G we
don't need to clear
G initialize G. So,
a equals to 10, b is
initialized, c is equal to 14, d is equal
to 5 and you see that we are separating days
initializations this
declaration and
initialization with a
coma so in between
each variable we have
a coma and here we
see e is equal to a,
which is a perfectly
valid statement, so
one variable e is
initialized to the
value of another
variable a, so e will
be effectively equal
to 10 so let's take
a look at a rather
simple example and see what happens here
so we shall leave year and then we
should go ahead and begin our
declaration so mon
for month, so month
let's say 3, day shall be equal to
16, semicolon here so we have, I'm sorry
don't need to semi colons and so we shall
initialize all three of these variables
here as well
2016 so they're all initialize now let's
go ahead and use them
std, colon colon, cout,
insertion, today is, colon,
close the quote marks
so because C++ ignores
white spaces, they
do not matter, we can
write our command
on several lines in
order to just to increase
the clarity level so to say, I mean I
doesn't matter perhaps
that much now, it's
truly for aesthetic
purposes but later on in
the code you will see
how sometimes this can help you out
make your code look a
lot nicer and a lot and
makes it more readable
so to say, let's go
ahead and place our in insertion variable
insertion over here
std, colon colon, setw, 2, so we're
setting with here it's going to be day
so let's go into
the next line, we
could have actually
they could have
placed these insertion operators
this is all the same
as this so we're
simply putting it in
the next line that
is all there is to it, so
let's place a dot here,
not big deal, it's go
down and std colon colon
setw, 2 again,
insertion, mon, so
for mon, let's put another dot
and at last should type
in year, insertion,
insertion and then we'll
put a dot here so we could
have placed this dot
in next line you
can see this would
be pretty much
the same but I just wanted to make a bit
of a demonstration here of how you can
have different variants
of this and if I
build and run this, I
should get an error of
course so let's go
ahead and see where
the problem lies so
day as equal to 16
that doesn't seem to be a
problem so am I missing a
semicolon somewhere? So
there's a semicolon here
ok here we go semicolon
at the end, excelent!
that let's go ahead and
build and run this
come on my good man do not torment me
so I have not so much for all
or harm
setup leave is not
recognized right once
again why did I delete this one?
I have no idea
include Iomanip when you do
some manipulation so obviously
and happen yes there we go
so today is 16 dot
space 3 dot 2016 dot.
So let's follow this
through the day is ok.
colon, space,
excellent, all is there
setw 2 and then it
says day so they
today is ok 16 sorry yes so
setw 2, so one two,16, then we
have a dot again we have setw 2
and we're supposed to print out
the month, the month is
the 3, so 1, 2 so two,
positions dot again
and year 2016 and dot
at the end, so what if
we for example wanted
to place a zero here
instead of empty
space so that we
would actually get a
more formatted output
so let's go ahead
and modify this code and make that
happen for us, we will now modified this
in a sort of printing out like I don't
know, this format of day 16
space 3 dot 2016 were
gonna go ahead and
print out 16 dot zero
3 and 2016 which is
actually more meaningful
output, to do
this we will use std
setfill from iomanip
library which we have included here setfill allows us to fill in the empty
places with whatever we pretty much one
or specify its rather simple but very
useful in the long
run so we can leave
the variables to be
initialized as they
are we don't really need to change
anything there this part we can also
pretty much leave as it is and then as
it begins here so it says that said std setw
2, we will inserted here so insertion up
here
std, colon, colon,
setfill, space, 0 so
we want to fill the
empty space with
zero and so down below
shall also state
that std, colon, colon,
setfill, because
why my placing is
you're up there because
you can also have days which are
123456789 and then after 10 they begin
to go they go into two-digit numbers so
setfill and we should have a zero here as
well
excellent so we don't
actually need to
do anything else
really we can just
leave it as it is we can just go ahead
and run it
I don't know whys is
taking so long to actually
run these programs ok so
there you go see it says
today is colon 16,
03, 2016 we can in
fact change these
variables to be like ok
let's say that today is the sixth day of the
month
what would happen then?
you see, it says 06
just feels the empty
spaces with whatever we
specify we have
specified that we want
the empty space to
be filled with zero
and so indeed they are.
Anyway that would
be it for the basics
of variables, we
will be using variables
throughout our
code I don't think
it will be a single
example with all the variables included. This subject
will expand to a
rather large extent
that anyway we're pretty much
done and over with this initial chapter.
And now, we're gonna go ahead and go to
chapter 2.